We have already seen about anchors and word boundary assertions.
In this chapter, we are going to discuss about look ahead and negative lookahead assertion.
Let's begin with Lookahead assertion.
To understand, we will directly jump into a practical example.
Let's say we want to find all the words where the last character is a comma, that is word or character
followed by a comma.
If we have a string like this, then hi.
And you are such words which are followed by a comma at the end.
That is for each word we will use slash W plus.
Then you look ahead for comma using question mark equals to comma.
That is the character you want to search for.
So the pattern will be slash W plus.
Then I want to look ahead.
So I will use parentheses.
Question mark.
Equal to and the comma.
That's it.
Let's try it practically.
I will declare the string variable.
Hi.
Is it you or not?
And the pattern will be slash W plus, which is to find a word.
I'll put a parentheses.
A question mark.
Equals to that is I'm comparing the equality and a comma.
Let's try console.log with a match method and run the code.
And you have all those words having comma at the end.
So now let's understand the negative look ahead assertion.
In the previous example, we were comparing equality.
But what if you want to apply not equality, that is finding all words not ending with a comma.
So in that case you use question mark, exclamation and the character.
So instead of using equal to sign, you are using an exclamation sign.
Let's change the pattern and run the code again.
I will say exclamation.
And run the code.
All right.
So we get all the values not followed by a comma, but still we do not have our desired result as we
are not getting complete words.
How can you make sure that you get whole words only?
It's very simple.
Use the word boundary slash B.
Let's add slash B and try running the code.
And now we get the output we wanted.
So if I write x parentheses question mark equals to Y, then it checks for y following x.
And if I write x question mark, exclamation y, then it's a negative lookahead assertion which checks
for y not following x.
Let's try one more modification.
In the above example, we want to avoid all words ending with comma and question mark.
In that case, we can use the pipe sign to give or condition because question Mark is a special character.
We will use escape sequence slash and the question mark.
So the pattern will be question mark, exclamation then comma or the question mark, which you want
to avoid.
Let's run the code.
And now we don't have a not word in the list which was appearing in the previous output.
So here we have searched for all the words not ending with comma and question mark.